okay let's uh let's get into
it um so today I'm going to try
to I think I am signed
in guess not
okay so I think uh I think uh couple
days ago we did
this I just did the Extrusion so we at
or the The Sweep so we at here so what
we were able to
do is take two arbitrary points in
space uh how that was done
was yeah was um first you make an offset
plane of one of the one of the three
coordinates and then you just make the
other two the uh and then you so this
point is a point a which is you can see
here one one oh I actually messed this
up but I mean it doesn't
matter 1 two three and then this
is minus
3 and yeah see again I did this wrong so
this sketch
is six on Y and four on Z I mean it
doesn't really matter it doesn't change
any of the geometry or whatever but just
to make sure that it's right so
then we make a plane that's tangent to
and how did we actually do
this point
normal Okay cool so there's just a
normal this is the same as the edge
normal uh that we saw in freead two days
ago so that's good now one thing is they
have this thing and we looked at this a
little bit ago is that you can just do a
show
code and this shows the
entire
representation but the thing is you see
here there's so much OB fiscated stuff
here but anyways the um
the
plan and so I was able to upload Json
and I was able to say feature script
Json and
find
this which is pars of Json in uh
string let's see if we just go to this
is there a search
we we'll do the tutorials for sure just
cuz I do want to like know this as a
real thing and not just try cuz the
thing is for
freead I don't know I didn't really care
but I actually do feel like knowing
feature script might be kind of
cool oh
wow
wow oh that's so
cool what's the license on it MIT
licensed that's pretty sweet okay let's
um
okay and okay and I guess I should say
this too I mean not that anyone freaking
watches these but the the goal is to
recreate this paper so let me just open
up vs code so we have our note
um and so the paper is this I thought I
had it I I did at one point have it I
think it's just in
my it's it's
whatever I like reading
these oh wow
dude I got to get my co-pilot back I
haven't had co-pilot in like two
weeks oh that's so
cool that's so cool public code matching
in
chat for
I've never really tried any of this
stuff out
that's so cool
[Music]
what does this function even do
I mean that's so cool I mean the dream
of just being able to talk and then have
stuff show up on the screen is so
great okay I think I think we're
good all right so yeah so it's this
paper oh wait it's going to open in the
wrong
place
okay um
oh wow oh my God oh my gosh mold design
oh wow this is really
cool dude I didn't know about any of
this that that is so
rad I didn't know about that at
all whoa
dude actually though that's
sick actually that's [__] sick how
does it
work dude that's so cool
[Music]
dude these are so
sick dude yeah actually having wow this
custom feature creates a hardware boss
I don't
really see that okay see that seems like
what we want we don't want it to be a
spline we want it to be a
line so wait hold on
move face what is move face
you can't change any of this okay I feel
like okay but I feel like this will be
useful
uh just to figure out how to do how to
make a make a Vertex at a at a global
point you know at a with reference to
the global
geometry see I wonder how this is
specified snap
hook I've wanted to do so much about
compliant snapping together cuz dude
these people make such aesthetic videos
on Instagram and I want to be able to do
that it's funny because they like
whatever it's just
funny
um okay let's just go through the
tutorials now now that I well let's
let's I want to look at the rest of
these
oh that's
cool for
where does that face come from
though no that's this is the feature
wait
what what is
this oh air
foil wait did we look at the mold design
one that's so cool
right so that came from
elsewhere these demos are so cool
okay it's time to get
started
for
for for
for many on shaped document you can
click the plus button and create a new
feature Studio a feature studio is an on
shaped tab designed for writing and
editing feature script to create a new
feature type definition press the new
feature button this will insert some
template code necessary for creating
your own feature type the parts of this
code that you'll likely want to change
are contained in a few autocomplete
regions you'll start out highlighting
the first of these regions and you can
navigate to the next region by pressing
tab or the previous region by pressing
shift tab I'm going to start out by
changing the externally facing and the
internally facing names of this feature
type both to slot and then tab to the
precondition where I can Define some
feature type
parameters one thing you'll see as you
type in a feature studio is an
autocomplete menu this will give you
some suggestions of feature script that
you can insert based on your code
context and what you're typing these
autoc completions ALS Al contain regions
that you can tab through here I'll
Define a query parameter that takes in
Geometry from a part Studio that I'll
use later to define the path of this
slot feature my next parameter will be
another query for a part in the part
Studio which will end up being the part
that we cut the slot out of and the
final parameter will be a
one-dimensional length that we'll use as
the width of the slot now at this point
all my Chang are saved within on shape
however they're not visible yet to other
onshape tabs because
I haven't committed you can always tell
when a feature Studio has uncommitted
changes because there will be an
asterisk on its tab right before its
name to commit a feature studio and make
it visible to other tabs press the
commit button now it's time to move to
the part Studio which I'm going to open
in a new tab and move that tab to a new
browser window just to keep everything
visible to test out the feature I'll
make some new geometry by sketching a
rectangle and a few internal lines that
will eventually become slots with this
slot feature I'll then extrude the part
to something that could be a laser cut
part and now it's time to insert the
slot feature hit the feature script menu
and then you'll see all of the features
defined in feature Studio 1 you can see
the part Studio has detected our feature
and named it slot which comes from the
feature type name defined over in the
feature Studio when you click on slot it
will insert a feature named slot one and
bring up a feature dialogue according to
what you define in the precondition so
you can see we have two query parameters
one for the slot path and one for the
part to cut and one length dimension for
the slot width now one interesting thing
to notice is that for the part to cut
parameter we can only select L lot path
we have two according to named slot one
and bring up a feature dialogue
according to what you define in the
precondition so you can see we have two
query parameters one for the slot path
and one for the part to we got crows
slot which comes from the feature Type R
menu and then you'll see all of the
features defined in feature Studio 1 you
can see the part Studio has detected our
feature and named it slot which comes
from the feature type name defined over
in the feature Studio when you click on
slot it will insert a feature named slot
one and bring up a feature dialogue
according to what you define in the
precondition so you can see we have two
query parameters one for the slot path
and one for the part to cut and one
length dimension for the slot width now
one interesting thing to notice is that
for the part to cut parameter we can
only select full solid bodies and for
the path parameter we can only select
edges this is the effect of setting this
filter field over in the feature studio
for these two query parameters when I
set the slot width over here to 3 mm on
shape's going to translate that into my
default units dude this is so sick just
like in any other
feature now it's time to define the
features Behavior we'll do that in this
second code block here right after the
parameters I wonder if I can select a
file
though because we need to be able to
read in I I think we I think it'll be
fine we'll Begin by extruding the slot
path so type extrude and change the
entities to definition. slot path which
is the name that we defined in the
precondition above we'll change the
bounding type of the extrude to through
all and since a through all extrude
doesn't need a depth we'll get rid of
that parameter but instead specify that
the body type of this extrude needs to
be a surface to update the other tabs
with these changes press commit or press
controls or command s since our part
Studio has an instance of this feature
type we immediately see it update with
the Extrusion our next operation will
thicken this surface in our part studio
type op thicken and insert the autoc
completion and for the entities we'll
query for the geometry created by this
extrude using a que created by and
passing in the extrudes ID for the
thickness we'll make this a symmetric
thicken by passing in half the slot
width to each of the thicken
directions commit your feature Studio to
see the operation take effect the op
thicking created a new thickened part in
our part Studio but it also left behind
the old surface which you can see in the
parts list to clean this up we can use
feature script to delete the body type
and insert a call to op delete bodies
and for the entities pass in the same
query for the Surface body created by
our first extrude when you commit this
change you'll see the extruded surface
disappear finally we'll subtract our
thickened part from the given part to
cut with an op Boolean for the tools
we'll use another CU created by this
time for the body created by our thicken
operation for the targets we'll pass in
the definitions part to cut that we
defined earlier and for the operation
type set it to
subtraction when you commit the
operation the part will be subtracted
and that's it we've now completed a new
custom feature type when you update the
parameters to all right so now that I've
watched it I'm going to do it
okay
so okay so let's just watch it
again for many on shaped document you
can click the plus button and create a
new feature Studio
a feature studio is non shaped tab
designed for writing and editing feature
script to create a new feature type
definition press the new feature
your button this will insert some
template code necessary for creating
your own feature type the parts of this
code that you'll likely want to change
are contained in a few autocomplete
regions you'll start out highlighting
the first of these regions and you can
navigate to the next region by pressing
tab or the previous region by pressing
shift tab I'm going to start out by
changing the externally facing and the
internally facing names of this feature
type both to slot and then tab to the
precondition where I can Define some
feature type
parameters one thing you'll see as you
type in a feature studio is an
autocomplete menu this will give you
some suggestions of feature script that
you can insert based on your code
context and what you're typing these
autoc completions also contain regions
that you can tab through here I'll
Define a query parameter that takes some
geometry from a part Studio that I'll
use
later query parameter okay so we just
type in query
parameter and
then your Cod also contain regions that
you can tab through here I'll Define a
query parameter that takes in Geometry
from a part
Studio that I'll use later to define the
Okay Okay cool so slot
path
Edge oh what
it's kind of weird Edge oh you push
enter but then the tab dies okay
whatever that's
okay path of this slot feature my next
parameter will be another query for a
part in the part Studio which will end
up being the part that we cut the slot
out of and the final parameter will be a
one-dimensional length
Okay so this is going to be a any type
the
body
and body type oh that's so
annoying what was it
solid and this
is part to
cut cool this is pretty straightforward
uh query another query parameter and
what is this that we'll use as wait oh
wait he did something different here
part that we cut the slot out of and the
final parameter will be a
one-dimensional length that will you oh
okay so they they just have a
um yeah because it's so
common as the width of the slot now at
this point all my changes are saved
within on shape however they're not
visible yet to other on shaped tabs
because I haven't committed you can
always tell when a feature Studio has
uncommitted changes because there will
be an asterisk on its tab right before
its name to commit a feature studio and
make it visible to other tabs press the
commit button now it's time to move to
the part Studio which I'm going to open
in a new tab and move that tab to a new
browser window just to keep everything
visible to test out the feature I'll
make some new geometry by sketching a
rectangle and a few internal lines that
will eventually become slots with this
slot feature I'll then extrude the part
to something that could be a laser cut
part and now it's time to insert the
slot feature hit the feature script
menu that's pretty nice
and then you'll see all of the features
defined in feature Studio One you can
see the part Studio has detected our
feature and named it slot which comes
from the feature type name defined over
in the feature Studio when you click on
slot it will insert a feature named slot
one and bring up a feature dialogue
according to what you define in the
precondition so you can see we have two
query parameters one for the slot path
and one for the part to cut and one
length dimension for the slot width now
one interesting thing to notice is that
for the part to cut parameter we can
only select full solid bodies and for
the path parameter we can only select
edges this is the effect of setting this
filter field over in the feature studio
for these two query parameters when I
set the slot width over here to 3 mm on
shape's going to translate that into my
default units just like in any other
feature now it's time to define the
features Behavior we'll do that in this
second code block here right after the
parameters we'll Begin by extruding the
slot path so type extrude and change the
entities to definition. slot path which
is the name that we defined in the
precondition above we'll change the
bounding type of the extrude to through
all
and right after the parameter we'll do
that in this second code block here
right after the parameters we'll Begin
by extruding the slot path so type
extrude and change the entities to
definition. slot path which is the name
that we defined in the precondition
above we'll change the bounding type of
the extrude to through all and since a
through all extrude doesn't need a depth
we'll get rid of that parameter but
instead specify that the body type of
this extrude needs to be a surface to
update the other tabs with these changes
press commit or press controls or
command s since our part Studio has an
instance of this feature type we
immediately see it update with the
Extrusion our next operation will in
this surface and our part Studio op
thicken and insert the autoc completion
and for the entities we'll query for the
geometry created by this extrude using a
CU created by and passing in the
extrudes ID for the
thick yeah I didn't quite understand I
don't really understand what all right
so let's just do that extrude and see
what's up so I go to here and I do
wait he just typed in
extrud maybe it maybe it's I mean it
looks like the same
can I just delete this
is there not just extrude
okay I mean that's got to be it so wait
let's just go
back oh wait let's
uh what the heck
how about now okay cool yeah so we just
needed to keep that parameter and these
videos are probably a little out of
date we'll make this a symmetric thicken
by passing in half the slot width to
each of the thicken
directions I don't the that um
oh yeah so what I wanted to know was
like is this
thing you can do an
infinitely I guess you can do an
infinitely
thin
okay um so we're going to do an OP
thicken
this is going to be Q created
by how did it
know what is okay so what is definition
refer to definition must
be all of the things up here
so if I save this I go over here you can
see that it did in fact thicken it
okay
cool operation take effect
the op thicking created a new thickened
part in our part Studio but it also left
behind the old surface which you can see
in the parts list to clean this up we
can use feature script to delete the
body type and insert a call to
op delete body wait let's see if we can
figure it out yeah okay so now you just
want to doop
oh control okay I don't know these
keyboards so this is going to be uh Q
created
by oh my gosh oh my
gosh IES and for the entities passing
the same query for the Surface body
created by our
first it's not the thick and it's the
extrude
one now there's two
parts and this is just a normal body I
can sketch on this thing right
okay when you commit this change you'll
see the extruded surface disappear
finally we'll subtract our thickened
part from the given part to cut with an
OP Boolean for the tools we'll use
another CU created by this time for the
body created by our thicken operation
for the targets we'll pass in the
definitions part to cut that we defined
earlier and for the operation type set
it to
subtraction when you commit the
operation the part will be
subtracted there
wait definition
or for
sick that's so
cool let's do a new slot
slot uh slot path
parut
with 10
that's so
cool excted and that's it we've now
completed a new custom feature type when
you update the parameters to any
instances of this feature the feature
type function will be called again and
its geometry will be regenerated you can
use your feature as many times as you'd
like in as many part Studios as you'd
like for more information and how to
build your own slot feature keep
should I read
this for
okay so what is it that we need to
do
um I think the easiest thing is
one thing is that we don't really
know oh it's in the other one what the
angle is supposed to
be okay
there's no
video there's only two tutorials
okay
for
for for
yeah dude that's so cool man
wait so uh let's just try to
um new new new feature Studio new
feature
Recon 3D
Recon
oh
uh so this is going to
take uh a file so wait how did we do it
again I totally
forgot we said
uh oh wait I'm so
silly this is going to be the file the
Json path file and it's going to
be um
featur
script parameters
okay wait can we just can we just
uh wait where is our Json we need our
cords. Json let me upload it
again wait wait can we just
do wait let's watch a video again cuz
there's
also I think there's a way to just set a
um
on the right the interface displays all
of the code required to make all the
sketches and features in the gear train
dude why didn't they have someone voice
this over all of on shaped standard
features are contained inside on shape
in a public document named
STD you can create your own custom
features in a feature Studio within a
document
custom features are useful in many ways
you can use them to customize a standard
feature UI automate repetitive tasks
create specialized geometry or
automatically set variables or custom
properties in Parts it's important to
note that custom features can only be
used in part Studios and only affects
the part Studio where it is placed it
cannot do anything outside the part
Studio it is executed in such as create
new part Studios drawings or assemblies
recomp information or any other
companywide operations it is a feature
just like any of the standard features
at the top of a feature studio is a
toolbar with options specific to the
studio on the far left are undo wait can
we just
um wait we don't want this anymore
so wa
read
for for
here we go blob
type
okay let's try
that my data
import chords.
Json what
oh nice I like that they share
it profile choose okay how did he yeah
see that's what I'm saying is how did he
get that oh wait you know what I think
you
do I think
I how do I do this
okay oh so you can't actually you can't
actually um
I don't think I don't think you can have
a parameter that wait no you must be
able to cuz I mean they did it with this
like this is written in feature script
and it allows you to select this
thing so we must be able to but anyways
um
yeah that's not the best but
okay wait oh
I
yeah but that's what I'm saying though
it's like what the
hell for
okay
so okay let's just keep going cuz I can
just bake it in I don't really care it's
my
feature uh but so now we want to look at
this importing external
data
okay wait how do you specify this blob
type
thank God
the value is of a type corresponding to
top level and if if it is it is a map if
the entity was an object an array if the
entity was an
array Okay so let's
um who what is up with my
scroll that's
weird why is it going so
slow okay so let's
um so this is not going to be this
all right I want to print out the first
I want
to okay so we're going to save this
we're going to go to our part
Studio going to
do 3D Recon
and then where is the feature script
notices here we
go blob type Json data there we go wow
this has been surprisingly
nice I mean of course we had a full
python so it's not like you know uh so
yes we're going to go back to this
okay okay so let's just try to get the
const a is equal to
J
zero
zero okay let's save
that now let's go over over to part
studio and now that it okay and now this
is our first point that's
great so what we want to do is create a
point in space with some
coordinates okay
a series of connected edges with that
form which form a continuous
path so first
Primitives okay so these are solid body
Primitives
wait what is what is chords again is
chords I think chords is
the chords is not the
paths yeah these are the right wires
that's right control shift F no yeah
there you
go okay
chord
system oh wait we have just a but do we
want to represent them all as vectors I
mean it's the same but maybe their type
system doesn't think
so not sure
yet oh cool they have an uh check that
two coordinate systems are the same up
to tolerance that's kind of
cool yeah so just to compare to Zoo I
mean look
zoo is great but Zoo it does not have
documentation like this they have a
couple of examples but nothing like
this right so we got to use all of these
which is quite
cool what I'm wondering is basically
what
because the hope
is well whatever I don't even want to
worry about that I don't even want to
worry about the optimization yet um
enums enums I don't know about
that okay wait that's that's
it path okay what about Point what if I
just search a point
wait what is a
wire up fit spline creates a 3D cubic
spline through any through an array of
3D points that's actually pretty cool um
oh and look at this so so so we do just
make it v a vector okay
so and these are Mills so we're good so
all we need to do
in
here
is const V's is equal to and then do we
have I don't think Json because this is
a lot like JavaScript I don't think
JavaScript has a list comprehension
right list comprehension JavaScript do
they oh you have a map though there
probably is a map let's see that
map I don't know this
language
J wait can we print out J again wait no
we just we know what J is J is
just chords so if we go to the
top so zero is this
wait do we
have
for do we have
this feature script
Loops oh yeah okay this is
more yeah this is what I was thinking of
right this is just the standard library
and this is the language ref
reference types and type tags top level
construct okay wait let's just read this
it's the way I'm feeling I
just but I got to let it go
wait this is syntax and seman wait
where's the
loops oh thank
God wait but that's okay for
Okay so needs to
be like that right
oops let's save that and then just go
over to P Studio
One noes okay I didn't print anything
and a
string presumably that's not just
right let's just manually go over
here yeah how do you get the length of
an
array oh is it just stored as a
[Music]
um this is their strink and Cat I'm
guessing
oh it's
size okay
cool all right
um
all
right so now we just need to make uh so
now we need to figure out how to make
a okay wait here we go
okay all of this seems pretty
standard they don't have ins that's so
funny they don't have
ins oh it's and they do non Nan which is
great because everyone hates Nan
they must have integer what
number so this is a
[Music]
copy
for for
[Laughter]
for
a
for for
oh wait okay so let's follow that second
tutorial then let's go through the
second tutorial I feel like that makes
sense
a
for for
[Music]
ghost
ghost you got it
B pick it up
boy run it
back shut the
KN down
back see
way this empty
[Music]
it up
boy run it
back shut the
mus
down see
[Music]
uh so what so what do we do we do um
wait
what did I just misspell it I must have
okay I mean this is all just UI work
it's not like that complicated
for a length parameter setting the UI
default is more involved since we want
to provide nicely rounded defaults for
users whove set various default units
the current default is to set is set
through length bounds the second
parameter for
what's the type of it it's a map
right but what's the type of meter is
the question is a meter some sort of
higher order function or what is meter
is the question let me just type in
meter I don't know
wait it's a constant
okay
yeah it's like a public keyword or
something narrow the slot path
filter while we're here we can modify
the filter for the slot path to be more
specific to prevent unw wanted input we
need we know we need to extrude in the
sketch normal Direction so we can filter
out edges that aren't
on we know we need to extrude in the
sketch normal Direction so we can filter
out edges that aren't on
sketches we also know that a slot which
isn't a line won't fit together together
with another planer part so we can also
filter out nonlinear edges I see okay GE
GE I want to see what's in that so is an
ed is an
edge let just see what's in here
Line
Circle
Arc other
curve plane
Point notably Point does not seem to be
on
[Music]
here oh
what the hell there
go the new geometry
needed can't be created using thicken
instead we're going to need a going to
create it using a sketch to give
ourselves a fresh start
by removing the old
implementation to create this sketch
properly our first task is to create a
cartisian coordinate system defining the
position and orientation of the slot
we'll Define this Co coordinate system
such that its origin is on one end of
the slot its x axis is along the slot
path and its Z axis is is along the
direction we want to
extrude like
the see okay the coordinate system
depends on three things the two end
points of the slot
path and the and the sketch plane we
will first evaluate the positions and
orientations of these entities then
construct the coordinate system based on
these positions
query the lines end points a sketched
line a sketched line will always be its
own body in the context we can find the
end points on this body with Q adjacent
which can query for vertices of a given
type that are topologically adjacent to
the slot
path we'll store this query as a
variable named endpoint
so it's a end points is a type query q
adjacent slot path adjacency type vertex
enity type vertex okay
oh that's so cool dude this language is
so sick cuz they actually made it where
it's like yeah I really I'm kind of
impressed
honestly it's pretty nice they've made
it so it's like easy to develop because
I mean they forced all their Engineers
to develop in it so then it's like you
know they made it at least kind of nice
to uh to
do okay so we're going to add this
and then we're going to add
this and we're going to save
it and we're going to go
to where's part Studio
One Let's uh delete this oh let's say
no and let's
uh so that's the debug is the that
they're
red
okay right we only open when you
actually open up the
feature nice
[Music]
okay right evaluate the endpoint
positions to find the positions of the
these two endpoints we can use EV ver
Tex point to specify the individual
entities entries of the query we can use
qn
element so start position is a
vector and it's a little confusing
cuz but whatever EV vertex point of
context I don't know what context
is vertex qn element end point0 one now
the question question is which gets zero
and which gets one okay so this is
queries like endpoints are objects which
specify criteria for finding a
particular entity or set of entities in
the part Studio these are just
specifications and they contain no
information about the geometric or
topological properties of any enti
entities depending on the context it is
evaluated in a query May resolve to zero
one or many entities now the other way
is geometric entities like end position
can contain data about geometric
positions and orientations including
vectors planes coordinate systems and
more these are just data and they are
not contextually associated with any
entities in the part
Studio this design gives onshape part
Studios and features the robust tools uh
needed to maintain fully parametric
references to get geometric information
from a query use an evaluation function
found in the evaluate
module qn element used above is a
function which returns a query for one
of the entities that another query
evaluates
to in general The Ordering of elements
inside a query is not predictable so
care should be taken to ensure that qn
element is only used when ordering of
entities will work when any ordering
will work right that's that's
basically that's basically the thing
that I've been wondering
about the resulting slot is symmetric so
we are content to Define it starting on
either end of the line it should add
maybe another thing on
like well I don't know a vector is just
an array of
numbers in this case with units which
behaves naturally under operations like
plus and times debugging one of the
resulting vectors will print its exact
location in meters and highlight that
point in the part
Studio that's so that's so nice
I wonder if there's a map function
all right so wait let's do that so first
we need
this uh there's no copy button here bro
we need copy
button this thing is so annoying
okay calculate the axis directions the
axes of our coordinate system will be
specified as 3D directions that is
unitless vectors of length one the xaxis
can be calculated by normalizing a
vector pointing from the start position
to the end position VAR X direction is
Vector equals normalize end position
minus start position so that's really
nice that's super nice
the z-axis can be calculated by
evaluating the sketch
plane of the slot path and taking its
normal oh do normal EV owner sketch
plane evaluate oh yeah EV stands for
evaluate so Z direction is a
vector resulted by evaluate owner sketch
plane context entity definition. slot
path.
normal create a coordinate system and a
sketch plane
but is there just an OP plane
I don't really understand
that why can't you copy this that's
crazy e
dude
okay uh yeah you don't really need to
okay
so okay wait can we go back to this
what does this actually mean
[Laughter]
I
bro me as a crow you're call right into
my ear could you just move over a little
bit that's me as a crow
I mean there's probably 35 crows here
right
now maybe 40 might be 40 crows here
now that's a lot
a
for
for for
so interesting cuz it's like they get
real quiet nobody's calling I guess
they're just I don't know I don't even
really know what they're
eating they kind of move around but most
of them are stationary
they only really come around in late
fall well they start coming around in
late fall I don't know when this they
leave I think they stick around for a
while
though for
okay it's have bird
watching it doesn't really say oh from a
point and a
normal that's actually kind of perfect
right that's like kind of all we
need it takes an origin and a vector I
mean the origin is dude I feel I feel
like that's all you need that's actually
pretty
sweet and then you can make a sketch on
this plane I don't know how to do that
yet that's really
cool where are
we
for for
right you could have just as easily use
a slot path that's that makes sense
okay
um create a coordinate system and a
sketch plane a cord system stores three
things An Origin position a direction
for the x-axis and a perpendicular
direction for its
z-axis for
a sketch plane specifies the same
information as a coordinate
system so that sketch entities may be
placed accurately thus we can also
create a plane in our chord system with
a single function call plane of
coordinates Sy yeah that's pretty nice I
like that's
overloaded sort of the full code to
create a coordinate system is below
okay just copy this in
[Music]
how do I
format that's nice
where's my debug oh did they remove my
debugs
okay all right here we go create a
sketch sketching and feature script
always involves three parts create wait
sketching and feature script always
involves two parts creating a sketch
adding entities to sketch and solving
the sketch a snippet can dude I would
love to write a sketch solver like a
constraint solver I feel like that's
probably such a good DIY
project um a snippet completing these
three steps can be found in the sketch
Snippets menu or simply by typing sketch
what is
top oh oh
top weird that's not really in um
diagnose a runtime error in the feature
script notices menu you can can see all
errors and warnings displayed in this
case the issue is a preconditioned
failure
a preconditioned failure means that
parameters to a function have failed to
match that function's
precondition for
to make a sketch in the coordinate
system of an arbitrary
plane use new sketch on plane
nice sketch a rectangle code containing
sketch entities will be placed between
the sketch creation and the sketch
solve do we have the
solve
oh I don't like that it doesn't I wish
it would just format on
paste the first entities we need to
sketch we need in the sketch will be a
rectangle which will be as long as the
slot path let's first Define a variable
which represents the slot length
calculated as the distance
between start position and end position
which is
Norm on the
line on the line after defining the
variable we can insert code calling SK
rectangle
angle by using autocomplete or by using
the sketch Snippets menu that's kind of
cool
okay every sketch operation has a sketch
ID
unlike feature operation IDs a sketch ID
is just a plain string a sketch ID needs
to be unique within a sketch the vectors
positioning the corners of the
rectangle are 2D length vectors me
measured in the coordinate system of the
sketch we provided
with the origin at one end of the
slot wait how do you
know how do you know though isn't this
order dependent
yeah see that's what I'm saying though
is like if the start position wasn't the
one at the end like wouldn't this
be so
I feel like this does depend on which
one you get from here and they're just
assuming that you actually get the the
one at the end to first start position
but they said don't rely on it so it's
kind of
weird if it works it
works the vector's pointing
all
okay this means that we can easily
calculate the precise coordinates needed
for the rectangle using the
slot
uh yeah so from there to
there whoa and now they all leave that's
the crazy thing is just all at once wa
but they might do a loop they might come
back around that's the funny thing oh
and a couple stay as as their Beacon
oh yeah they're back
wait how do we how do we specify a
point n
type.
vertex yeah
okay
wait did we add all this
I
[Laughter]
that would be insane if they didn't have
an iterable Loop thing
SK
AR okay I feel like we could figure this
out now so
what do we want we
want let's do
uh okay okay so two
vertices let's do the thing well
actually wait can we just provide
input how do we just
provide wait so wait let's go to that
probably
this and then when they did
this they got
to reference
vertex I don't really get this can we
just play around with this okay but can
we see the code
here's a quick tour of the free form
spline feature that I wrote for on shape
it's essentially a fit spline through
points that you can drag around in space
so I will click add vertex here and it
will create a point at the origin and
you'll see this Triad pop up I can use
the Triad to move the position of that
point but the feature is failing because
we need at least two points to create a
spline so I'll click add vertex every
time you add a Vertex it puts it at the
same exact position of the one before it
so now I have two vertices on top of
each other and I can drag it out once
you begin dragging the but it's still an
absolute coordinate thank God and drag
and add and drag and if I want to edit
any of these points I can just go back
and select them and move their position
in 3D space so this is a good way to to
uh route wires and things like that um
and because the idea is to Route wires I
can um also select a reference so I have
added a vertex and it puts it at the end
of my spline and I can go here reference
vertex and grab this point in space and
it will uh place my point there and it
will also set my X Y and Z values to
zero which means that I can offset from
the reference if you want to um so I
could either type a value so let's look
at the
code because basically we we just want
to make a custom feature that let's see
where is
it where the hell did it go
template for
okay so I'm going to copy this in
actually wait hold
on do we need this I don't know if we
need we might need all of
this so let's do
this like that except we're just going
to oh
yes editor is not
amazing okay let's go to Fe part Studio
2 let's do 3D Recon add vertex nice
so we should be able to refer to
okay so now we have that now how do we
refer to them we we
have vertices okay so what we want to
do is we need to can we
is there
assertions can we say Min can we specify
the
Min okay so to
do whatever we're going to figure that
out later because I mean we're going to
be parsing this anyways so let's just
say that we
have uh VAR a is equal to so we can
close
this is equal
to definition.
vertices uh
vertices
z h copy P oh Jesus I I don't like the
control C doesn't control C should just
copy the current line like it does in
everything
else okay then this is
B this is one so now what we want to
do is we actually want to create a plane
so plane op
plane and it takes the
um wait where does it say what is
what I thought it said something
useful this do string stinks I I'm
pretty sure it says
yeah plane origin
so we're going to give it three
things oh wait I guess we're only giving
it two things yeah it's this one origin
is Vector so this is going to be this is
going to be a
and then this is going to be
normalize B minus
a can we see if that worked that' be
sick so we have 1 two three okay so what
failed okay these are warnings
though cannot multiply map value with
units okay
I wish it would just open it up in here
so
57 a is probably already in
wait it's a
map
for
for for
[Music]
I wonder if it actually adds the feature
though that's the interesting
thing so this fails because cannot
subtract map and map which actually
check
out but the the the thing is I want to
okay let's just do the obvious thing I
mean it's this is really not that hard
you basically just say okay we want to
define a function how do I Define a
function
oops
export
Funk okay this is
um uh
array Point index we don't need that we
just want to do two two
vertex and this is going to take a x of
type map can I do
map is there reflection in
here it's kind of annoying that it let's
see does does this hover show me
anything it's the way I'm feeling I just
can't
[Music]
deny functions functions functions bro
how do I make a function
returns well that's
cool yeah but how do you
specify oh wait do you oh does it is it
like an is I say
yeah oops X is
map yeah there you
go okay
return so this is going to be a VC how
do I make an array I think I can just do
this
[Music]
oh my god dude this is so annoying
notifications dude
stop just stop it's never dude Microsoft
is so
stupid okay so we want to say two vertex
oh wait don't we want to say
Vector is Vector a function make a
vector from an array
okay all right let's try to save it and
run
it oh damn bro I'm sick I'm literally
sick so it makes a
plane so wait I can't I can't tell if
this is right
wait this is
top okay so X is positive
there oh yeah so but
okay and it is slightly angled which is
good but now we want to
actually draw the line right
so we actually
want so this is so okay so this is the
plane that the sweep profile is
uh lives on but that's
not and I feel like I just want to do it
the dumb
way what I'm wondering though is how do
you do
the uh what is it vertex normal plane
constraint because it doesn't seem like
any of the op plane Constructors
really have that
um what is the next step here the next
step is
to I forgot I already forgot so plane
yeah we we want we want a to be the
origin for
sure and then the normal
so I don't get what this
is the
x-axis the x-axis of this plan's
coordinate system will be an arbitrary
Vector perpendicular to the
normal um so the normal is this way so X
could be any of these
these um no I think we need to specify
X so we need
to then
know
um if we're like this could be any of
these so we need to know
so we want to provide X for
sure all right so what do we need to do
now is we need
to make the sketch profile and then we
need
to uh draw the line which means okay so
I want to do that first I'd rather do
that so we need to make a plane
[Music]
um can you just take the normal of
this array index
okay so how do you define a
plane wait can we can we do it the
coordinate system method where is that
thing that we were reading
so we want to take this Vector it's
pointing like
that
as what is
that if that's the X if that's the X
then we're actually looking over
here but I don't know if I want to
normalize that I don't know how or like
coordinate system presumably you can
scale it I'm not exactly sure
so we want so if we're looking this
way
and or wait uh
okay let's just say we're like this and
we're looking this way Y is that way Z
is that
way
um did we do they normalize that they do
normalize that um
I feel like there's got to be a
simpler way
but how do we do it in the other guy if
we go here uh
so you make one plane that intersects
that one plane that intersects that then
you make a plane uh how did this guy get
made
what right
this is the
normal how is the normal made the normal
oh the normal is made with the vertex
Edge Point normal
can we see the
code it's probably in the standard
library right
wait these are all
the oh here we go
but then we have to set up the queries I
kind of don't even want to do
that it would be nice if you could just
provide the oops you just provide the um
the X instead of the norm instead of the
normal
[Music]
okay I'm pretty sure that it's just a
simple permutation of these
right let's ask
chat I have this code uh for on shapes
feature
script um
language and this creates a plane so the
plane function in this
snippet
um makes a plane where a is the origin
and the second argument of plane is
the
normal and so but what I actually want
is
is that is is the other way around is
that the second AR or basically I want a
plane where both A and B lie on
the on the on the
plane for
is cross even a
function what is the cross product
wait wait can't we just dude can't we
just do this
can't we just do this let's comment this
out copy
this and it's going to be instead of
that that's the
X so if we're like this the
normal uh so this is going to be the X
direction right
so now we're living like
this I don't think this works let's just
put B in here I feel like this is going
to fail
right see this is the normal
though wait but that doesn't even make
sense oh I keep losing my tabs man
so what let me get a pen what am I even
trying to say
man you have a is equal to 1 two 1 two
3 you have B is equal to - 3 6 and 4 and
the let's just say the
ab line is equal
to do Theus 4 4
1 we did this yesterday or two days
ago um
and so this is going to be the X right
so this is the X part so what we
want wait can we just do it in two
Dimensions right now so we have 1
2 Min -
3 5 six
six okay and so what we want is so this
is going to be minus 4 4 is uh equal to
a and 2D and what we want is the normal
of
that so if we just flip them around
right isn't that
right what is four minus 4 as opposed
to e
wait how
okay all right forget all this code
let's just say that we have two points
point a wait it's not
working dude sometimes I swear this this
this website is it just like
fails come
on all right forget all of the
programming just let's just say we have
point a at 1 comma 2 and uh B at Min - 3
comma 4 um and so that makes the uh the
vector from A to B equal to minus 4
comma 4 now what I'm wondering
is how do you compute the normal to that
Vector dude this just goes to show how
bad I am at
math wait these aren't even the
same oh wait okay
so Min
-4
yeah okay yeah what about a 3D
normal to compute a specific nor normal
Vector in 3D you need another reference
Vector W that is not collinear with v
the okay the cross product is what we're
talking about
here okay so the cross product of two
vectors gives me the the other
one so we
have okay and we need to do it with
reference to the origin I feel like
because when we go and look from our
point of view from a
we need to know how much to rotate so
that we can pick X cor we need to well
all right we're making two planes one
okay so we'll make we'll call uh Pro
there's profile
plane and path
plane right
so we
have for
yeah
so for
wait why don't we just ignore that and
just assume that it's a flat path so
meaning the Z of a or a z is equal to
bz which in which in that
case because that is actually true for
the gcode that I that I have well at
least the simple test case that I
have so great so now we
have okay so
now so then we have to change our A and
B points but that's
okay yeah so let's make a equal to one 2
0 B is equal to - 3 6 0 so
now just looking from up top we have
yeah one we have the same graph as we
have
before so our
X so the x is going to
be uh
um for
okay yeah clockwise okay so it's y -
x so it's 4 - 4 okay so in our case so
this is
X this is X for the profile
play and then Z which is the
normal is going to be B minus
a do they have a way to rotate vectors
like that
so wait first off let's go to um
wait how come I can't hide
that why can't I hide it
we went
the so in the profile plane the nor the
normal
of B minus
a is the X for the profile
plane but but
X
for
path is B minus
a
okay so this
X for this
one the hell is
it I think it I think it is
001 for
this still
fail um
I think that this is just going to
be a
oh wait oh okay whatever I don't give a
[__] that doesn't look right though
okay so let's simplify let's say I have
two points A and B and
their uh Z component is the same so
they're not
um on at different
heights I need two planes I need a
profile plane
that uh that is um that is perpendicular
to the that has an origin at a and is
perpendicular to the vector A to
B uh the other plane that I need
is uh in ects both A and
B I guess and I think is perpendicular
to the profile plane
I don't know what that even means
so the software I'm
using um it has a plane function it
takes three arguments the first is the
position Vector of the origin the second
is a
vector normal
let's see if that works that'd be sweet
if that
works we don't need that we just need
this
okay that looks right so now let's make
the
sketch think I'm going to make some food
I think I'm going to make some kimchi
fried
rice K G fry
WI
for for
for
e
e for
for
e e
for e
for
e
e e
okay
okay so now we want to sketch on plane
for
and review buttons they work just like a
part Studio assembly or drawing meaning
they are only active for the current
session and independent of other users
that may be in the studio the new
feature button inserts the template for
a new feature to the right of it are
pull down lists for parameters queries
evaluations math functions sketch
functions and operations each list
contains commonly used functions but
it's not comprehensive we will learn
more about using each of these types in
later videos further to the right are
the import and format buttons we will
learn more about importing in a future
video The Format button formats the code
with the proper indentations so it is
helpful to use prior to committing the
code the blue commit button commits the
code and makes it active for use all
changes are always save in the versions
and history graph similarly to any other
tab but you do not see any changes in
the part Studios where your custom
feature is used until you commit it the
feature script editor is based on the a
editor many of the same keyboard
shortcuts work such as toggling comments
with control or command slash and
committing feature Studios with control
or command
s to get more information on a function
Mouse over it and the documentation pops
up with tips to see its full definition
hold down control or command and select
it the function definition opens in a
new tab this works for standard as well
as custom functions you may have to find
in another
Studio when you add code to the feature
Studio it recommends functions based on
the standard Library you can use the up
and down arrows on your keyboard to
cycle through suggestions and press
enter to auto complete the function call
it puts in default values for the
parameters that will likely need to be
changed use tab to cycle through these
parameters press control or command F to
bring up a search you can search for any
keyword in the active Studio select the
plus sign or use control h to replace
keywords with others you can find and
replace one at a time or all at once use
the magnifying glass in the top right to
search all feature studios in the
document on the top left type in the
keyword you wish to search by you can
apply filters for Cas sensitivity and
regular Expressions on the right you can
filter by feature Studio name click on
an individual line to bring up the
instance where the result is found there
are many resources to assist you in
learning feature script open open The
Help menu and select feature script
documentation you can also access it
directly through the link the landing
page contains a welcome and a quick
walkthrough video to get you
started tutorials contain more in-depth
examples the standard Library
documentation contains a listing and
explanation of every call available
specifically in this course we will
focus heavily on the topics under
modeling the standard Library Source
opens the public document that controls
all of the standard features in on shape
the feature script guide explains in
more detail how to define a custom
feature correctly the language reference
section describes the conventions as
well as what functions expressions and
statements are valid within the language
Additionally the custom features page
contains many highquality completed
scripts that you can view use copy and
modify it is easy to get started
building a custom feature in a new
document select the plus to insert a new
element select create feature Studio an
empty feature studio will always start
with an import for the standard library
and declare the version of feature
script being used name the feature
Studio Cube select new feature at the
top to insert the basic framework for a
new feature a feature is made up of a
function declaration and within it are
the precondition in body comments are
automatically inserted to direct you to
the appropriate areas for customization
you can delete them or leave them The
annotation contains the name of the
feature name it Cube the constant
contains the custom features internal
name as well as defined areas for the
inputs and actions in the constant
change my feature to cube as well the
precondition is where all user inputs
are defined select inside and select the
length parameter from the feature
parameters pull down we will go into
more detail on other parameters in a
later video change my length to side
length change the definition identifier
to side length as well move the cursor
into the body where you define the
features actions select F cubid under
the operation functions menu this
function takes in two inputs for the
opposite corners of the cuboid shape
multiply the vector for Corner two by
definition do s side
length remove the inch units from corner
two because side length already includes
units select the commit button to commit
the changes to the custom feature go to
the part studio and notice that the cube
entry is available it is in the custom
features in this workspace menu it puts
a cube at the origin with a side length
you
specify this basic script identifies the
key components required to create a
custom
feature the user interface is how the
end user views and interacts with the
custom feature as the author of the
custom feature you decide how the
feature appears in the toolbar what icon
displays if there are any tool tips and
all of the user inputs in the feature
dialog we are going to start the script
for a dome feature that we will continue
over the next few videos the Dome
feature takes a circular face and
applies a convex or concave Dome to it
in this video we will focus on getting
the name icon and Tool tip to display
correctly in a new document create a new
feature
Studio Define a new feature it
automatically adds an annotation to
define the name of the feature and a
constant that contains the rest of the
feature information the feature
annotation is what communicates to the
rest of on shape how this feature should
appear the feature type name is required
for the script to be recognized as a
custom feature it is important to update
the default values to text that matches
the custom feature you are building edit
the feature type name and change it to
dome there are several other optional
annotations you can add the filter
selector declares what keywords would
cause your feature to be retained in the
feature list filter the feature okay
what's up
bro yeah right now honestly right now I
feel like today's been pretty
slow but I'm starting to get it uh so
basically we now we have two planes and
we made it with this
code so our current feature script I
don't know if you can hear me our
current feature script first off I
figured out how we can do Json so that
that's
good
um because the coordinates that are
going to be exported from the slicer the
gcode is
Json then this is just the parameters so
that like when you do this and you make
u a 3D
Recon you can pick whatever vertices you
want actually let's do this again and
let's um let's see what happens if we
pick
this and
um so wait we actually want to switch
this up because we in the future Studio
we just want to make this
nor
AB let's see if we can get this
wait normal AB the extra second wait
second plane is
the this is the path
plane the path plane
shouldn't the X in the path plane
be uh the vector
AB all right let me put this food away
really
quick
for
e
e e
yeah this needs be wait what is
this I feel
like this needs to be Vector
ab and this needs to be
got hate editing text
no way this
works wait
the
[Music]
[__]
for e
h
if you point up there
then
what bro why am I so stupid
[Music]
let's just go
back I mean this does
it it's just that they're not
perpendicular but anyways now your
geometry okay wait so let's just draw
okay so now let's just make a sketch so
where was that
thing so first we need to make a sketch
plane isn't it just um
we have a plane
wait am I dumb as
hell bro these guys really coming back
man come on these crows bro these
freaking crows
wait can't we just do this
this is going to
be normal a
this is going to be extra
profile now that looks pretty
correct why was I tripping out about
that so
much oh but this
actually but do I want to do
normalization at all what is normaliz Iz
ation do
there's a sketch on this plane
yeah but the crazy thing here
is for
wait what is the sketch
playing oh yeah
okay bro why is this so
[Music]
confusing for
is this even right dude this doesn't
sound
right for
wait where's the other plane
though damn it
okay so on this
plane the sketches on that plane right
this isn't even
right cuz if
Z wait
wait oh this is
a I can't I can't tell
anything
for for
[Music]
so much
code all I want to do is make a line
why is this so confusing
okay let's just say I'm looking at B I'm
at a and I'm looking at B I want my
normal to
be
001 which is true
yeah then I want my
X all right let's just let's do this
math with like unit vectors so that I'm
not being an a total
idiot that is my pencil okay so let's
say a is at the
origin and I'm looking at 01 0 so I'm at
0 I'm looking at one0
0 and I'm just going to say okay so
what's the cross of that can we can we
just open up a normal thing
wait what is the cross
wait ah
yeah okay wait
so the plane that I want is is then X is
equal to one Z
my so let's just manually make some
planes I I say we do
a let's just do a new
parts let's do a new features part
studio and new feature
Studio
okay let's
copy the
um oh yeah we have to do new feature
um Okay so
so wait we need this so this is going to
be 0 0
0 the
normal it's going to be
001 so what I don't really get what that
means what does the normal actually mean
and then here we're going to get a
vector for
oh wait so wait if we change
this to
be now we're facing to
Y okay
on
so the yeah so
[Music]
the is the cross of a to B
bro what the [__]
if I have two vectors maybe like this
they're not cinear but they're not
perpendicular
that's why the
yeah
for
[Music]
for e
I'm having a hard time
understanding uh some math I guess
related to 3D geometry so let's say I
have two random points A and B in 3D
space the it wait hold on the first um
the Bro dude this thing is so [__]
annoying I'm here to help let's sort it
out together what can I
ass okay so you have points A and B in
space and I
want uh got it I want a
plane that you want to find a plane
related to these points are you looking
to define a plane that goes through both
points or are you thinking of something
else yeah it goes through both points
but the function that you call you don't
provide the points wait what if I just
try to make a c plane why don't I just
try C plane or do you to to do c plane
do you need um
is that it man
how do you make a c plane
do I have to import
something
e
for for
okay let's just do
that so okay so the plane let's see
can I sweep a profile that's not on a
sketch
plane okay for this this doesn't
matter but um
uh
so you you do need to put the
um right it just sweeps it along those
vectors that's kind of
weird for
[Music]
okay I think I want to do
this I'm just going to do a new thing
this is bothering me okay
so okay so what do I want to do I want
to
oh
wait let's do this we're going it's
going to be it's going to be the top
plane sketch line goes to here great
now we're going to take okay how do we
query A Sketch
entity let's just ask
it how well wait hold on I want to do
this how well do you know feature
script show
me how to
create a sketch on the top uh face and
make a line from like the origin to like
uh 20 comma 20 then I want you to show
me how to
query uh a sketch for all Edge
entities
for for
okay
we need to now
bro why is this so hard okay so um
wait how do we do that with feature
script that's what I'm trying to figure
out
though so if we do this plain
cuz we only need it for the first in in
a wire
line
point but how do you get C plane
yeah how come I can't use
this and where is is it Q Union this
[Music]
thing for
can we also I also want to try
um just comment this out
oh it's such a beautiful shape dude the
saddle that's so cool
h
that's so annoying
okay
for for
oh hell
yeah that's what I want
bro so we make a big
polyline for
so why can't I use C plane cuz C plane
would be really nice
here
for
for for
[Music]
for
wait we know how to do this one
though
right the x is going to be
the x is going to be
what or we could just say the normal
okay let's make
a oh that's
sick return to trans form this takes 3D
points measured with respect to a
plane or rather this makes more sense
okay so let's just do
this up
plane so let's just make this
[Music]
wait what does OP plane
do oh wait what was I doing
before I think I was just calling the
plane
function oh right okay wait we just want
to make
plane wait why am I tweaking out so much
what what was I doing back here
oh yeah and then I had to do this op
plane right okay okay okay cool
where is
it
for
e
that's
for
[Music]
for for
why can't I see this
thing wait what the
hell for
okay I need help with taking it an
arbitrary polyline and basically the
what I need to do is I need to make
a a
sketch that is normal
to the first line in the poly
line
um and it needs and then I and then on
that sketch I need to make a rectangle
that's 4 mm in length and 2 mm in height
width I don't know in the other
direction of the sketch plane and then I
want to sweep it along the
polyline the problem is it's not going
to be right
wait this should be
right that's what I'm saying bro what
the hell
why doesn't it show the
plane value sketch plane is query
was it this one was it this
one new sketch on plane that's what I
want to
call did it make the
sketch for
but then where is the sketch
but where is the sketch
bro but if we
just for
new feature
oh yeah you have to do
solve I forgot about
that why is it all the way over there I
have no idea it doesn't even make sense
it should be lying
on I mean that doesn't even make
sense I don't even think you need this
do you need this
okay well I guess you
do so can I do this
did I forget one oh
yeah okay and then we're going to make a
rectangle wait so where did our
rectangle
go oh yeah
wait can we see the
sketch do you get to modify it what the
hell
okay wait so now we want to extrude this
I'm literally
insane for
well let's just try this
okay that's
cool dude it's hot out bro
it's dang hot
out for
for for
dude what what the
hell what does that mean
lock profile direct oh interesting now
that's cool
actually how do you get a Direction
I don't really get it
oh wait I messed this
up this is so cool
dude for
[Applause]
okay so let's delete the sweep let's
delete the
sketch and then let's figure out what
was going wrong with my sketch so oh
first
oh damn
it it's not Monaco bro it's not
Monaco
millimeter
millimeter let's fix
that there we go okay now we just need
to do an OP
sweep this should be easy okay okay
how do you just
get can I just do this or is this not
going to work
wait what does it return I'm actually
curious it might return
nothing
uh profile keep or no we can just
comment this
out oh h
so then what
fails how do you okay wait
let's focus
bro okay wait are we at the sketch part
yet when do we make the sketch
this this doesn't make sense to me but
it's okay
so we're able to make the
rectangle okay wait but when did they do
the extrude
Q contains Point what does that even
mean oh they have a pipe that's kind of
nice that's kind of cool actually
for
[Music]
for for
come on
w
yeah where did they explain the
difference between a query and data
did they ever explain like
what what id
means uh
oh wait we should have saved that thing
uh let's
um let's uh pause the
uh every oh let's pause the sweep and
then we're
good okay and I want to print this thing
out actually I feel like that' be kind
of fun
um but see the thing is oh wait no
or not extrude
uh oh wait this one's
different that's okay let's just uh save
this and and print it I just kind of
want these things
and maybe we can see if my printer
actually sucks
[Music]
nice let's see if we can do it
oh
[__] wait what the
hell wait something is very weird
wait what's going
on what the heck is going on man first
off this is crazy
cool wow that's cool but
um was that like that let's do a new
yeah what the heck is wrong with my
bamboo
Studio I feel like it lost on my
[Music]
profiles yeah where is
my why is it all
a1's device
oh I think I just accidentally did this
yeah this is this is correct okay that
was weird
this thing is so
cool all right
[Music]
for for
dude I bet this thing is
uh no I don't know look oh wait there
you can see it see how it hasn't fallen
yet that's what I'm talking about
[Music]
like what is going
on yeah look at that D I'm so glad I got
that on camera wait but did it fall did
it fall into the build plate I honestly
can't tell wait we'll find out in a
minute no I okay this see okay and now I
feel like pretty confident that this
wait there it
is there it
is why is it doing that
oh wait did it fall it fell
off well anyways I mean I feel I feel
like it still demonstrates what's going
on it's
like I know what it is bro I'm just
being dumb there's residue on the hotend
that just doesn't come off and rather I
think it seeps from
above okay well I feel like this print's
going to succeed so that's good
um okay so we just need to do this sweep
how hard is that we're literally almost
ready it's like all you have to do is
you take the
Json then you like do
a
dude yeah you tree map the chill the
leaf nodes to turn or the H the leaf
arrays I guess but whatever you go
for coordinate pair in
J
map Vector onto each coordinate pair and
then you store those and
then
uh yeah it's so easy
and then once you have the or actually
wait no we want to do this with the
wires yeah so there's one more level of
nesting and anyways you just
create a
polyline dude it's it's weird that like
I didn't even know about polyline but a
lot of this stuff just works with normal
like vectors
like you're way it feels like you're way
more
constrained
to
um it feels like you're way more
constrained
to uh 2D geometry when sketching in in
the actual goo
then this okay so we just need to sweep
this why isn't sweep
working I feel like it's CU you have to
do some weird Q thing here Q
sketch how can how I feel like I should
just be able to use wreck like why am I
coding in a way that makes no sense but
it doesn't work right it
fails wait first off we okay let's
delete this thing that
were
wait okay what go what is going wrong
here select wait sweep select
profile okay so okay so you definitely
can't do this so what is the way
then in here you got to go all the way
down till after
you op
extrude region to extrude
okay so we just
need Q contains Point sketch
region
origin I don't even know what that
means they don't really explain that
what
does contains point
mean I mean what is
okay so let's go to is there a full code
at the bottom that I can copy hell yeah
oh hell yeah
okay a query for
all okay wait how how about I just ask
it might not know specifically but um
Q sketch
region sweep
sketch can I do
that let's try
that that doesn't really make sense
because
select sweet profile
dude I want more tutorials wait can we
watch a video
maybe turnning template allows you to
change the default naming convention
used for new features in the feature
list UI and
end mult if opposite direction is true
set it to a negative value otherwise
leave it as a positive
value in the subtraction Boolean set the
tool Prof now when the doome is inverted
and the error is triggered a warning
appears this custom feature calculate
their values with respect to the edge
length create a constant named sketch
one and set it equal to the result of a
new sketch on plane function aim for the
sketch function to create a circle enter
not R A Part
Studio the sketch is positioned
perpendicular to the edge at its
midpoint to create a cut you need to
combine an opic Dre with an ople and
subtraction opic Drew contains many
required and optional parameters for
this example the cut should stay
centered on the edge this requires the
entities Direction end bound end dep
start bound and start dep parameters the
entities parameter requires a query for
its input use the Q sketch region query
to reference the sketch phas Q sketch Q
sketch region ENT sketch
ID
okay op
sweep Q sketch region sketch ID isn't
that what I do
though so wait did it complain about no
it's
still complaining about the
profile I wish they had an examples
thing like most other people like
sometimes you can just like like I like
when you can
like see a whole bunch of examples wait
let's see feature script
examples nice see I knew someone
would oh but this isn't what I want dude
I want to be able to search the code for
sweep wait actually wait hold on let's
do this custom features thing
wait what am I looking for custom
feature dude let's just take this and
close to the
right this is it's going to be so much
code though and it's like I feel weird
because it's in a different
environment okay wait I want just the I
just want the spine
one I just want to see CU he probably
has an OP sweep in the
he doesn't
sweep wait actually can't I just go
to what I had I should have freaking
saved it bro let's just get rid of the
op sweep and then we add back in the I
can't believe I keep doing this but uh
wait we need the
rectangle do we have oh we do okay so
now we want to
sweep this along this PO
line um and what do we want to do now we
want to see the code for this so now we
want to see the op
sweep but there's no op
sweep feature sweep oh they just call it
sweep what's the difference I don't get
the difference between these Ops bro bro
what the hell are the Ops
about on God bro okay so let's just go
sweep yeah cuz like up here I just
called plane I didn't call and that's
how it should be man I hate all this
dude that's why a mathematic wait
there's no just sweep function god dude
it's like the C plane thing it's like
the C plane thing that's crazy so wait
you go to the part
studio and you see
a sweep function so I want some wait
let's just see if this
um let's just see if this
um wire routing one does
it oh nice that's cool oh that's so cool
I want to they don't have a previewer
wait where is the
actual feature script
thing they don't have the source code
for
this that doesn't make any sense I don't
see the uh this is just
the oh
wait no I don't see any oh here we go
all tabs wait
what oh here it
is can I just but I can't s dude that's
okay that's the problem with having your
own editor like this it's just like
there's some advantages but this is just
like open this up like is there a sweep
in here no is there a sweep in
here okay there's a is there an OP sweep
I just need an example okay let's just
see op sweep feature script I feel like
what you get is you get
please dude I need an example
of oh nice wait does he have the
uh free form spun how do you even get
that no that's the custom thing though
right wait alt C oh you can't edit
this I need an OP
sweep this is going to freak me
out is that what's failing that this
doesn't make any
sense 2022 this is probably my best
bet new sketch
rectangle sketch
Circle
sweep yeah this is where the air okay
okay wait is this old I feel like this
is old
profiles Q created by profile
one you face oh this is just like this
is just how you select literally all of
them dude this is so General but okay I
I think I get it so I think what this is
saying I wish I could get validated on
this is that wait what does q Crea by do
can we copy his code this is wrong right
I'm trying to use a
sketch as a p okay yeah uh
uh sketch entity
query wait okay for the profile I could
use this let's try
that so wait can we save this as like a
real thing comment this out and can we
just uh
version save this this save this create
a
version honestly that well I've never
done it before
so it's cool made a version all right
but we want to disable this honestly I'm
fine going back and forth but so instead
of this we wanted to
do this
I crash
it oh
wait oh but it's still goofed up wait
let's delete this what's wrong with
this sweep select profile this is such a
bad error message dude sweep select
profile can I go to that
okay profiles needs to be a query I
don't
know path also needs to be a query so
that L is wrong because let's just do
some type checking ourselves get our
sleeves what is this return this returns
A Sketch
yeah it's actually annoying that these
aren't
like what is
this why doesn't it give me a dock okay
there gets the wire body
entities wait first off can we oh please
this work this would be
awesome yeah okay
wait can we just read that whole thing
try to try to actually understand this
I'm trying to use a sketch inside
feature
script as a
path yeah and I'm trying to use a poly
line it works fine when the sketch
contains a few connected lines but
there's an errow when it becomes closed
I kind of doubt that
okay can we just read through the
the bro
now
[Music]
why is it always
closed for
[Music]
oh yeah dude I got to think like I'm
actually going to design one
oh
hold
for for
and
that's now create a PL
normal
to
the create a PL normal to
where for
explain queries
[Music]
no way this is fuing right Q Edge I
don't think that's a thing
man I mean it's sort of like estimated
it how to query for sketch
rectangle feature script there's just
not enough
information wait can I do a wait can I
do
this Q created
by and then what is
this a query for all the entities
created by a feature or
operation wait so oh wait so you know
what I want to do I just want to make
some queries and debug it like this is
I'm just acting a fool man
uh a query for all of the entities
created by a feature or
operation the feature is given by its ID
which was
passed D I wonder if there's some sort
of like lexicographic ordering for these
boundary representation things
like how do you name how do you name
them cuz I feel like there's no way to
name them that's the crazy
part I don't know um and that's why this
is so
weird like how do you name the
geometry the features given by it ID
which is pass okay an entity is created
by an
operation if the entity was added to the
context as part of that
operation so presumably the cont can I
just can I just print line context let's
just see what the heck print line
context it's it's given to literally
everything and I have no idea what it
is cuz I mean this is exactly what it
was when I was building um Cass it's
just like you have to have a context
that manages everything stores the state
of the
system uh so wait so let's
see oh that's actually so
annoying what the hell I mean that dock
string is just makes everything more
mystifying that's the annoying thing so
where were we though so they should just
make a desktop app it's not that
crazy okay
whatever I saw that thing that someone
used tari someone used rust tari or
something to like automatically generate
a desktop app oh no no maybe it was
electron I think it was electron but
they
yeah okay uh I was reading a good doc
string was it oh was Q created
by so wait can we just okay so wait
actually yeah let me just stop being
down so what we want to do is we just
want to say
VAR uh FS is equal to this and then I
just want to print oh yeah dude this
okay whatever I mean it's honestly
fine
um I I want to just dump that
oh come on what does it
say okay so it's literally just
what wait did I still say extrude one
can we make this sketch one and now how
do I actually evaluate this
query
evaluate evaluate query that's what what
I want
right I mean oh dude this is driving me
crazy oh my God I can't get over wait
let's see if they have a feature script
vs code thing the problem is
it's that's the problem with having your
own
like
system I mean that that's the same
problem with zoo man they're trying to
make a business off of like like apis
and nonsense but it's like
like I don't
know it's just like I just want the best
CAD that's I just want to express what
I'm trying to say bro dude the AI CAD is
like dude AI CAD is like so but
like like what you need to do is you
need to
like use that Alpha geometry
like like okay what is one example of
one of the problems that it Sol it
solves a proof but it's
like all these all these nerds say
proofs are the same as
um programs like a program is just a
proof of a of something that like
doesn't crash I don't I don't really
know how they put it but it's it's
like
presumably
yeah what's example of one of the
problems though
it's they wrote it in Python but like
didn't
um no here's a simple problem
perfect let ABC be any triangle
oh those that those two angles
are that's actually so cool
okay I guess what I'm trying to
say is
like the problem that I'm trying to
solve you have a line in space from
point A to point
B that is the same as one of these
statements let you know let yeah
AB I wonder if you can try try this
thing the problem is like
sweep is kind of a higher level function
okay what what were we actually doing
evaluate query is what it sounded
like okay
oh my God wait I just want to see dude
that's what that's the thing about this
tutorial I'm actually not happy with
it's
like it's like one of these things bro
how do what are you
doing wait can I just debug wait is that
what it is can I just debug this
how do I select this that's all I want
to do bro is
Select select sketch element feature
script I feel like I'm asking the wrong
questions I'm trying to say sweep all
these
faces then please give me another error
bro
please oh wait wait where was that query
resolves to nothing oh damn dude what is
going on please tell me oh maybe it's
this what if the path
is okay I'm just going to write a thing
cuz I don't understand this at all
yeah I just need a cad kernel bro I
don't need all the other stuff
okay so what do what is it that I do I
do make we can make this
a
b okay and then so we make we take two
vectors then we make a polyline then we
make a plane that goes from A to B
and make a little
rectangle what about what about re what
if I did rectangle
one
where oh yeah
yeah wait
57 oh
the error message is so annoyingly bad
okay I'm just going to I'm just going to
post I feel like that's reasonable
now I may be kind of dumb but how do I
post new
discussion how can
I
sweep in feature okay wait I'll just put
feature script I don't know how can I
oh wait is this only about feature
script how to
sweep a
polyline hello
I plan to sweep a profile across all of
the paths that my printer is
extruding this is to
recreate the printed
geometry for stress
analysis I am I'm having
trouble
understanding under
understanding um how
to
um how to call op sweep
um so I'll say I guess I'll share wait
let's make
a here well I I'll just put the code
that's so much easier where's my thing
though this is my this is my code so
far wait
what can I can I do this
oh code block
okay I am able to get far
enough to
where wait does it does it fail wait
wait actually you know what wait can we
just read the doc string one more time
for this thing profiles is a query so
see op
sweep profiles but it just says
profiles is query what is query a query
identifies a specific subset of contexts
entities yeah
okay the fields on a query map depend on
its query
type and may include one or more
subqueries
a a context is a builtin that stores
modeling data including body solids
sheets wires and points their
constituent topological entities faces
edges and
vertices variables feature
ER States
Etc every onshape part Studio uses a
single context all features operations
evaluation functions require context to
operate on dude okay now that you now
that I'm really reading this I mean it
seems more clear how you even make
a how you make your own CAD each context
keeps track of the version okay while
regenerating a
feature hell back okay whatever so but
what do I want to know I'm trying to
figure out what the quer Yeah query
type what is it
I mean we obviously want to query
faces
okay okay specifies the topological type
of a given entity
or query or any query expli wait can I
just post this just in case I don't
figure this
out uh I have the polyline showing up on
the screen as well as
the uh as the
rectangle which is
the
sweep uh
path as well as a rectangle sweep
profile I keep
getting I feel like I'm
just yeah what is the arguments to these
queries
all the
faces I mean the thing is I'll probably
bait someone into doing this for me what
what is the error
though but honestly it's a sick thing so
if I can just get someone to do this for
me like it's kind of nice but I do want
to know how it
works um
yeah this is how it is so we're just
going to um evaluate this and we keep
getting this stack Trace so wait but
let's do this and I keep getting we
might have changed the code slightly but
I think that that's
fine
um this is the stack Trace but I don't
feel familiar
enough I I I I don't I don't I just say
this is the stack Choice I'm just trying
to you
know dude they got to they got to hop on
the
freaking
um okay I'm new to feature my use
cases I'm having trouble understanding
how to call op sweep
all right I'm done let's just do it
after it's approved dudee come on
[Music]
man okay let's read the more of those
docks I guess we might be able to figure
this
out I mean this obviously obviously
there's a way to do this I'm not just
like I'm just being
like I'm just pretending that this
what if I just delete the last one here
there's no way that this works there's
just no way that this changes
anything
wait wait
what oh wait we need we need oh I'm dumb
as hell we need to do this and we need
to do this
oh but I deleted the
feature wait but it didn't
air but it didn't oh wait but no I'm do
why am I so
silly yeah it's the same thing so okay
dude someone approve my someone approve
my um my message because I'm so ready
for this to be
ready oh where my keys
that
for for
check it out check it out it's pretty
cool
actually it's like a fun geometric
object it's pretty cool
so
um okay how are they using this that's a
question sketch entity
query okay wait how do I how do I get
what this returns though that's what I'm
saying you're that's what's so good is
introspection you should be able
to so wait sketch ID sketch entity crew
what does this do
where what what's going on
oh what what is
this we return all the wire bodies so
wait did this work
though this is going to be sketch
one all so it should get all of the
edges
sketch entity
ID oh wait this needs to be rectangle
one and this needs to be oh wait ID plus
sketch
one uh
honestly I'm shooting in the
dark okay what is this turns a query so
we want to do this and we want to uh
say VAR Q equals this then we put Q
here there just no way this thing
works call
yeah
what
wait what is this dot dot dot why is it
not showing me oh gosh why isn't it
showing me the whole error
oh wait but we want to query
faces dude someone going to approve this
bro come on
H prove my
post wait but did this no wait but we we
couldn't find the actual code for this
we just I don't think that this does
what I wanted to yeah this is this
totally like
wait what was the code that worked let's
try his
code
H what
uh uh oh
wait here we go okay um wait does this
run we need part
Studio we want to we want to do my
feature and this gets the sweep path
failed but what do I get do I get sweet
path failed I don't think I do I think I
get wait H where's my post bro
wait I just posted something where is my
post
okay uh but yeah let's just figure out
what what it
was okay here it's yeah but let's just
comment that out
what is it
oh sweep select
profile what if I turn this thing on
ises this thing
profile control mode not found where did
I get
this
what dude
what where did I even get this
from op
sweep
profiles FS half l
how do I import this
thing what's up with this where is
it I have to import
something what is the okay op
sweep dude I I don't like these because
they're
hidden for simple sweeps but sweep you
don't even get I don't even know how you
get
sweep is a query how do you make a query
what's what's a query
wait can we just uh read this
introduction cuz it's not it's not going
to be in the tutorials it's going to be
in here
[Music]
and there's no search man
Q created po specifies geometry created
during a certain operation Q contains
Point specifies geometry
that how do you how do you combine them
okay a query does not reference entities
it simply encodes
criteria however when passed into a
function like an evaluation or an
operation together with a context that
function can determine which entities
match the
query in all the functions you use will
take care of evaluating which entities
match a
query however sometimes is necessary to
determine how many entities match a
create or perform a loop over each match
evaluation functions are used to measure
the
geometry so wait queries are used to
refer to the topological entity in a
context evaluation functions are used to
measure the geometry and topology in a
context
they take a context in a map that
specifies what to measure for example
Eve box 3D Eve volume respectiv you find
the bounding box in the and the volume
of a
group operations are standard Library
functions that create or modify geometry
in a context they start with op and
takes take three arguments context I ID
and a definition
map what is a definition map a feature
may have no operations like a sign
variable one operation like fill
it calls op fill it I don't dude what or
multiple operations like extrude which
may call op extrude OPD draft op Boolean
and more
operations modify the context which is
passed
in sketches can be
created inside of custom features as
final products or as a step towards
building new geometry the typical way of
creating sketches from within a feature
is different from the typical way of
creating sketches interactively in two
two important
ways when when creating a sketch from
feature script full control over the
sketch coordinate system is important
the new sketch on plane function creates
a sketch whose coordinate system is
derived from that of the past in
plane but new sketch
uses a canonical coordinate
system sketches created from feature
script don't
often sketches created from feature
script often don't need to make use of
constraints although they can if
necessary because it's often easier to
calculate the desired sketch entity
coordinates and feature script than to
set up the cor correct con rint
[Music]
system huh what's up but really that's
weird
for
dude no no come
on that's insane
man
for
for for
[Music]
for
for for
w
for
for for
all right BR I'm tired of uh I'm tired
of feature script I'm going to wait on
that um but I did just snap a pick
I bought this exact model about 12
months ago to use in the place of a 4
horsepower compressor that I that had
finally bit the Dust after 21 years most
of the years being left out in the
weather I need something inexp
inexpensive in right now that fit this
fits the
bill how does a compressor actually work
dude I don't get how they do
that oh dud we don't even know if it
works bro okay wait but
[Music]
for
for for
oh wow
okay
for
for for
it would actually be cool to do like a
controlled test where you like you make
some 3D printed object and one part of
it is like way thinner than another and
then you get it to burst at the end
that'd be pretty
cool calculate the appropriate
thickness use some extension cord how do
you even use it
then for
the current your product will draw
[Music]
symbology I like that word
what what is SCF
something cubic cubic feet meters or
something
no oops I need to go get some of that
wait can I download this thing I'd
rather just download
it oh this is's like way better quality
too that's so crazy for
88 de at 1
meter
for
for for
wait this is all assembly I feel like I
don't C
okay so what is
this oh wait
okay yeah so the two common most common
use cases of this thing are for PT for
painting and for uh I'm guessing this is
a nail gun I don't really know impact
driver or something I don't
know okay so a is air hose B is a filter
C is a regulator
or no C is a regulator D is a
lubricator I don't know what that does I
don't know what that does coupler and
plug oh wait a another
hose dude for real this is how many
parts you need just to use a nail gun
it doesn't even say what these are to be
honest but whatever
oh my
gosh check the oil level before
operation fill with pump crank case 39
with premium 30 weight non-detergent air
compressor oil
the air compressor with the incorrect
amount of oil will cause damage to the
equipment and avoid the warranty to
prevent
damage do not use with overfill or low
oil simply fill slowly fill to full line
wait 2 minutes and fill back up to the
full line compressor has small passages
that will fill
slowly okay the oil level should be at
the center of the full okay
damn that feature script thing today I
mean I was acting dumb but that really
threw me a loop for a loop it was just
like so confusing did they even
ever I feel it's going to take for
forever but I'm going to forget to like
check this that's why it needs to be
quick
um where is
the
wait where did it go oh it's here
General operating instructions close the
drain valve make sure all nuts and bolts
are tight check for oil
leaks and oil level close the inline
shut off valve between the compressor
and the ear
hose make sure the air Tool's throttle
or switch is in the off position connect
the air tool to the air
hose plug the air compressor power cord
into a grounded 120 open the shut in
line turn the power level on allow the
air compressor to build up pressure
until it Cycles off
is
for
for for
it's interesting with more compute you
can embed more like debugging in your
Hardware so like you can tell the user
why it's doing what it's doing but like
when it's just sitting there yeah you
need to put all these instructions
it's kind of
cool okay so
[Music]
so how do you build a tool that uses
this
compressor
for
for for
that's so cool actually
yeah like obviously these
exist wait why does it
have wouldn't you only expect it to be
like why is
it like this one makes sense
this
blocks air from going through here dude
this is not so bad you just CAD this and
um wonder if we have something like this
I feel we might
it's in standard dude let's I've been
watching videos about AliExpress
bro what why is it in
French but what the hell is going
on wait why am I in France
I need to do that okay let's look for a
uh wait dude why is it in France let's
change this
freaking 100
Palms is that the city oh my gosh dude
this thing is such a cluster [__] dude
what the hell uh we just want a one
uh what what is the general name for
this solenoid valve that's what you want
you want solenoid
valve yeah we want a normally closed one
for
sure for water oil helium gas
yes do these say their pressure
ratings wait what if we just Google Sol
solenoid
valve on a site that I
understand quarter inch two-way normally
closed electronic stainless
steel I feel like the all of these
should have their pressure
rating right like how can you use this
if you can't say what it's pressure
rating is
wait wait what's
a okay wait help me
understand is this enough information to
tell if it can
handle what uh 125 psi
wait
wait oh my god dude this is [__] oh
oh I see what's
happening okay but it's
$10 and when do I get
it it's crazy that what does IP mean
[Music]
that's not that much current dude my
solenoid takes like so much current
oh oh cool that okay yeah that's cool oh
yeah IP Ingress
Protection all
right best
match water
okay do these these 24 volts we can't
really use that
[Music]
dude that's insane that they have no
specification of its
pressure all these I mean it was 99s
welcome deal dude this [__] is
insane for water yeah we we don't want
to control water
what to search
for to find the solenoid I
need it's going to come up with a long
one but
um how do I specify that I want one for
air a lot of the ones I'm seeing are for
water
air solenoid
valve
obviously okay yeah see this looks kind
of like the package I was expecting this
is my welcome
deal wait what are these
quarter
inch this is for the
fittings 12 volts
DC great customer support what dude how
do you know what PSI can
take I'm I'm so baffled that
don't you need to know
that dude this is so funny
where is where's the pressure
[Music]
what if I just
Google that's crazy bro
dude Ali Express is an insane place
I'm so surprised this isn't a more
common
thing what's up
bro all you probably what's going on
it's been a
while I'm trying to I'm try kind of dip
my toes into using this air compressor I
have and um I just want to basically I
need
um solenoid I have the
relay uh the thing has a pressure
regulator on
it um
yeah and then once we have well we need
to get the fittings for these things I
feel like I'm sort of down to get this
this thing says it can handle 100
um PSI this thing doesn't say
anything wait is this 12 volts yeah we
need a
12v and then they all specify the
diameter because presumably that's like
how much they can let
out I love that it's the same [__]
picture bro it's like they put no work
into selling this [__] it's so
funny normally closed is definitely what
you want right
because that means that wait for
normally
cloes a normally closed one means that
it doesn't draw
Power uh when the valve is sealed so no
air flow no current then when you attach
the current air
flow okay
yeah that's insane
that none of these have PSI
specifications
where is uh this part that I'm trying to
get uh most used
is
okay so the I mean you could fit the
um well let's look at the this one so
this one's threaded on the
inside so I'm trying to figure out
yeah they use a totally different
threading system I I've read about that
I've heard about
that dude it's 10 bucks should I just
buy this thing wait when does it
come it doesn't
say
for
e
for for
it's weird that most of these take
120 let's let's look up a YouTube video
about solenoid valves I mean it's
literally just a solenoid that steals it
it's like not that hard
but hey there guys PA here from engine
mindset.com in this video we're going to
be learning the basics of how solonoid
valves work coming up what do they look
like why are they used where are they
used and how do they work if you are
working with solenoid valves you're
going to want to properly look about as
you would expect they have the valve
body but on the top they have a block
which will have some cables coming out
once the valve is installed this top
part is the solenoid and the bottom part
is the valve therefore making a solenoid
valve here's a small real world solenoid
valve and in the next solenoid video
we're going to actually cut this one
open to look inside as well as make a
very simple solenoid valve ourselves to
understand the mechanics of how it
operates now these valves do come in a
variety of shapes and sizes I'll just
show you some examples here the shape
variation depends on the capacity of the
valves the pressure is working with and
the different internal mechanisms which
we'll look at later on in this video why
do we use solenoid valves well these
valves allow Engineers to autonomously
and remotely control the flow of fluid
within a system this fluid can be a
liquid or gas for example water air
natural gas oil steam refrigerant Etc
the list goes on and on the solenoid Co
on the top is used to operate the valve
by passing an electrical current through
it to create an electromagnetic field
and operate the valve this means if it
is connected to a controller it can be
operated autonomously and remotely by a
computer without the Need For Engineers
to physically run around opening and
closing valves this allows systems to
run much more efficiently and safely so
where do we use or find solenoid valves
the short answer is everywhere Solly
valves can be found in everything from
washing machines up to space Rockets
although we're going to focus on the
industrial and Haack applications for
this video let's have a look at some
examples in commercial refrigeration
systems we're almost certainly going to
find at least one solonoid valve in the
system and it's usually found in the
liquid Line near the expansion valve
we've also covered how expansion valves
work in a previous video do check that
out links are in the video description
below you can see this example here from
an air handing unit which I was recently
working on this has a double direct
expansion cooling coil inside to control
the temperature of the air being sent
around the building the top expansion
valve and cooling coil is always on when
the system operates but the second
expansion valve and cooling coil only
come on in the summer when the cooling
load is too large for the single coil to
handle the solenoid valve is therefore
used here to isolate the second coil and
the expansion valve until it is needed
the controller then sends a signal to
the valve to open and provide the
additional cooling another very common
application for solid valves in
refrigeration systems is in the hot gas
defrost line to control the flow of hot
refrigerant into the evaporator during
the defrost cycle when the moisture in
the air condenses on the tubes of the
evaporator it will freeze and cause a
build up of ice we need to remove this
to ensure efficient operation so we open
the sonoid valve to send hot refrigerant
from the compressor through the
evaporator instead of the condenser then
once the defrost has completed the solid
valve shuts and the system continues as
normal in cooling mode in industrial
applications we can use these valves to
precisely control the flow and mixing of
fluids for example to pour a perfect
amount of fizzy drink into a bottle on a
production line you might also find solo
valves being used in a production line
to detect and prevent leaks if a sensor
detects a leak from the pipe work then
the controller will tell the Solon valve
to close to shut that part of the
production line off and prevent product
being wasted and also protect the
manufacturing equipment until Engineers
can get there and fix it so how do they
work as we saw earlier in the video
there are a few variations in how the
valve operates depending on the required
capacity and the Press it's working with
we're going to focus on the directly
operated valve which is the simplest
version with the direct operated valve
we have the solid on top which is
basically a coil of wire as you may have
seen in our electrical videos when you
pass an electrical current through a
coil we generate electromagnetic field
this magnetic field is what we'll use to
control the valve we have two types of
valve the normally open and the normally
closed type let's look at the normally
closed type first I mean what I want to
know is basically how do you
calculate the parameters of it so that
you know how much pressure you can
handle so inside the valve we have the
Armature the solenoid is placed over
this and completely surr the Armature so
that it's at the center of the magnetic
field inside the cylinder of the
Armature is the plunger and spring the
spring pushes the plunger down in a
normally closed type valve because the
plunger is pushed by the spring it will
sit in a down position to close the
valve indefinitely but if the coil
receives an electrical current then it
will generate an electromagnetic field
and this magnetic field passes through
the plunger and will cause it to move
upwards against the spring therefore
opening the valve at the center of the
coil mag so okay so yeah the main issue
is that you need to be very
fast you need it to quickly open
otherwise it's going to like shoot it
out real
slowly so that's uh that's not going to
work D did they ever did they ever
like on shape forms
dude I want someone to solve my
problem I do not like feature
script we need to get some of this
oil how hard can this be
[Applause]
dude I feel like the main thing
is I just need to get a small
rod but connecting the
um yeah it's just going to be the
connectors
most compact and therefore the strongest
this is why we place the plunger in the
center once the electrical current is
stopped the magnetic field disappears
and the spring will force the plunger
down again to close the valve with
normally open valves we again have the
coil sitting around the Armature but
this time the spring pushes the plunger
in an upwards position so that the valve
yeah like for this I would much
rather pay for a more powerful Solen oid
to better control the release of air cuz
I could totally see that I buy a cheap
one and it just doesn't go
anywhere that's how this thing always
goes bro you just you're never up to
spec open unless the solenoid coil is
powered on there are a few different
designs but one of the simplest to
understand is if we pass a current
through the coil in the opposite
direction it again creates an
electromagnetic field but this time the
field pushes the plunger instead of
pulling it when the plunger is pushed it
will close the valve and stop the flow
of fluid in the system
okay yeah these are probably just not
going to cut it cuz the thing is I've
used solenoids bro they're like weak as
hell
all right I think that's it it's it's
dark